byok documentation (#6634)
camunda/camunda-docs: docs/components/saas/byok/faq.md

---
id: faq
title: "FAQ"
description: "Frequently asked questions about encryption at rest, encryption key types, and External Encryption Keys in Camunda 8 SaaS."
keywords: ["encryption", "BYOK", "KMS", "encryption keys", "security", "FAQ"]
---

<span class="badge badge--cloud">Camunda 8 SaaS only</span>

This page answers common questions about encryption at rest, encryption key types, and External Encryption Keys for Camunda 8 SaaS clusters.

## General questions

### What is encryption at rest?

> Encryption at rest ensures that data stored on physical media (for example, disks or backups) is encrypted, protecting it from unauthorized access if storage is compromised.

Reviewer: Can we add qualifiers when it applies to the Orcheastrion cluster and when to Web Modeller?

Author: I _think_ my added note resolves your comment here, but let me know if this is still unclear.

### Which encryption options are available in Camunda 8 SaaS?

Camunda 8 SaaS supports the following options:

> - **Provider-managed encryption (default):** Data encrypted with a Google Cloud Platform (GCP) provider-managed key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Provider-managed encryption (default):** Data encrypted with a encryption key supplied by the cloud provider (AWS, GCP).
```

- **Camunda-managed software key:** Data encrypted with a Camunda-managed key at the software protection level.
- **Camunda-managed hardware key:** Data encrypted with a Camunda-managed key at the hardware (HSM) protection level.

> - **Bring your own key (BYOK):** Use your own encryption key from a supported cloud KMS provider, such as AWS KMS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **External:** Use your own encryption key from a supported cloud KMS provider, such as AWS KMS.
```

> - **External:** Use your own encryption key from a supported cloud KMS provider, currently **Amazon KMS** only.

Reviewer 3: This might be to be rephrased a bit. Amazon KMS is a service of AWS. How the sentence is written now, it could be assumed that it can be used to any cluster, even those created in GCP. It should be rephrased to something like "currently available only for AWS region clusters".

Author: Feel free to check my addition to ensure this is resolved 👍

For a full comparison, see [encryption at rest](/components/saas/encryption-at-rest.md).

### When can I choose the encryption type?

You can only choose the encryption type when creating a new cluster. It cannot be changed after the cluster is created.

### Is encryption at rest enabled by default?

> 
> Yes. All Camunda 8 SaaS clusters have encryption at rest enabled by default using GCP provider-managed encryption keys.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Yes. All Camunda 8 SaaS clusters have encryption at rest enabled by default using provider-managed encryption keys.
```

## Camunda-managed keys

### What is the difference between software and hardware encryption keys?

- **Software encryption key:**  
  Uses Google KMS at the software protection level. Keys are managed by Camunda and comply with [FIPS 140-2 Level 1](https://cloud.google.com/docs/security/key-management-deep-dive#fips_140-2_validation).

- **Hardware encryption key:**  
  Uses Google KMS at the hardware (HSM) protection level for higher security assurance. Keys comply with [FIPS 140-2 Level 3](https://cloud.google.com/docs/security/key-management-deep-dive#fips_140-2_validation).

Both options support zero downtime key rotation.

### How often are Camunda-managed keys rotated?

Camunda-managed keys are rotated regularly with zero downtime to maintain compliance and security.

### Do backups use Camunda-managed keys?

No. Backups always use the default GCP provider-managed encryption.

> ## Bring your own key (BYOK)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## External Encryption Keys
```

> ### What is BYOK?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### What are External Encryption Keys?
```

> Bring Your Own Key (BYOK) lets you use your own encryption key from a supported cloud Key Management Service (KMS) provider, such as AWS KMS, to encrypt Camunda 8 SaaS cluster data.

Reviewer: Can we call out that Amazon KMS is the only supported KMS? We omit GCp and it looks like an omission. When we add GCP, we can update it.
